This marks the first entry in a long journey  that began with the birth of a child in 2010 , which eventually grew into a family and eventually the blog in which I continue to write my thoughts , feelings and opinions about our nation and world. In that blog I have spoken about the fact that I am a person who has grown up in an era where people were judged for many things. And while that was certainly the case in my childhood , that was never the case for many others.  Now I am not talking about "the other side." I am just talking about my own sense of shame that is rooted in my culture which sees the same thing as others do. I have seen others as "evil" just because of who I am. For some people. For others. For others. I'm sure that many of our critics will be too as that is how people understand that sometimes the people we're criticizing are people on the other side of that debate.  Some will have no conscience about their own opinions and will just enjoy living their lives. Others will just want to live to hurt or kill others. I'm not suggesting they should either, because it's easy to come a little further on because we all deal with similar issues and the same rules for everyone.  For one thing, it's not like that is inherently wrong.  Those who don't live to harm or kill others will be just as guilty of that as those who do live to live. Like most things, there is a dark side to all of it and like most people, we just want to live. Unfortunately, that is not always the way it works, and I think that is why we have such a tough time learning to be compassionate in our society. I believe that if we would all reach out to others and try to understand what we are all experiencing , we could find a way to be kinder and gentler to one another. The world would be a much better place. I'm not saying we should be completely fine with everything people do and say and think and feel. But I do think that the people in the world who actually commit violence, believe violence is okay, should be arrested and tried. And by that I mean try to really see where the others may be coming from and to try to understand. We would all do better for everyone, including ourselves, if we could just stop to consider that many are also just trying to live and be happy and just want a better life. It's not that hard and to those who have never had it easy or never had the benefit of strong parents and a good education, it might even seem to be obvious. But somehow, for many people, it's still a difficult thing to do. I am sure that when I have grown up, when my time comes, I will have more understanding of the other side of the issue. In the meantime, I will continue to share my journey , my opinions and my thoughts in hopes that somehow I can maybe help my fellow humans realize that they are not all bad. We are all just trying to live and learn and maybe it would help if we would try to see what we are all doing and how each of us is having to deal with the same issues and just realize that we are all not so different. There is that old saying, "look before you leap." That is what I want to be able to do for my fellow human beings. I want to understand and know what it is that makes them feel that way and to try to empathize with their experiences. This journey has already made me a better person, I know that for sure. Thanks for joining me. Just don't "look before you leap."